# 5.5: Physical Security
## Objective: preventing unauthorised 

physical site access and protection against theft, damage, loss and failure of operations.

## PS-01 Perimeter protection
### Requirement:
Note: Perimeter just means area.
The perimeter of our premise(s)/building(s) that house our sensitive data or infrastructure need to be protected by implementing safeguards that are deemed to be secure.
Examples of Safeguards: fences, walls, security guards/video cameras, burglar-resistant materials for doors/windows, etc...

### Additional requirements description (confidentiality)
Dividing the premise into logical different security zones with diverse safeguards and secured gateways between the zones
## PS-02 Physical Site Access Control
### Requirement:
Access to the premises/building(s) said above needs to have access control to avoid unauthorised access.
### Additional requirements description (confidentiality)
Requiring 2FA for the physical site access control
### Related To Action Plan:
Access control card needs to be given to all employees authorising them to access respective areas of the premise, access is controlled in accordance to IDM-01

## PS-03 Protection against threats: inside and outside

### Requirement:
#### Structural:

- Setup separate firezone  for PC center
- Fire-resistant materials (with a period of at least 90 minutes)

#### Technical:
- Sensors to monitor temp. And humidity
- Fire alarm system with notification to fire department
- Early fire detection and extinguishing systems
#### Organisational:
- Regular fire drills and fire safety inspections to check for compliance with fire protection measures
### Additional Requirements description (Availability)
Monitoring of the infrastructure where alarm messages are generated and forwarded to respective entities in case of irregularities

## PS-04 Protection against interruptions from power fails and others
### Requirement:
Safeguards to maintain availability of services and preventative measures to prevent power,or network failures, also temperature related failures should be taken into account.
Examples would be redundant network connections systems (different physical connections) , power supply and AC systems, use of UPS and EPS.
### Additional Requirements description (Availability)
Supply services should be monitored and alerting system should be setup.


## PS-05 Maintenance of Infrastructure and devices
### Requirement:

Documentation of policies,instructions, and all types of safeguards should be communicated according to SA-01 
Examples would be secure deletion of sensitive data prior to some external repair, analysis of assets to avoid malfunctions, and renewal/removal of assets if any of CIA elements is at potential risk.
