# 4.6 Operations:
## Objective
Ensuring proper operations like monitoring, logging, proteection against malware, and handling malfunctions/errors.
## RB-01 Capacity Management - Planning
### Requirement
Planning of capacities/resources should follow an established procedure to avoid any bottlenecks.
Procedures can include forecasts of future capacity requirements in order to identify overload risks

### Additional Requirements (Avail.)
Forecasts must be taken into account in coordination SLAs for planning and preparation of provisioning.
## RB-02 Capacity Management - Monitoring
### Requirement
Define technical and organisational safeguards for monitoring.
safeguards can include: use monitoring tools with alarming function, incident management correlation with events
Continuois monitoring of systems by personnel
Redundancies in IT systems.
### Additional requirements (availability)
Cloud customer should be provided with relevant information (via self-service portal).
## RB-03 Capacity Management - Data Location
### Requirement
Cloud customer must be able to know the city/country of the data processing and storage (including data backups), this req. supplements UP-02.
## RB-04 Capacity Management - Control of Resources
### Requirement
in case of IaaS/PaaS , cloud customer is able to control/monitor the distribution of system resources assigned to them for administration/use in order to prevent congestion
## RB-05 Protection against malware 
### Requirement
Anti-virus protection and repair programs should be implemented to IT systems/Network systems. The program should be updated according to contractual agreement with manufacturer(s) but at least once a day (????)
### Additional requirements (conf. and avail.)
regular reports performed audits should be reviewed by cloud provider
## RB-06 Data backup and restoration - Concept
### Requirement
Policies with technical/organistion safeguards to avoid data loss such as backups should be documented according to SA-01
## RB-07 Data backup and restoration - Monitoring
### Requirement
Data backup should be monitored , malfunctions examined and eliminated.
### Additional Requirements
Monitor backups, cloud customer is provided with logs or summary of logs via self-service portal
## RB-08 Data backup and restoration - regular tests
### Requirement
Test Backups and Restoration of backups regularly , tests should be deisgned to make auditing backups and restoration time efficent. Tests should be documented.
## RB-09 Data backup and restoration - storage
### Requirement
Data to be backed up is transmitted to a remote site on backup media, if transmitted through network, it should be in an encrypted form.

Note to self: can use 3-2-1 rule
## RB-10 Logging and Monitoring - concept
### Requirement
Policies with technical/organisational safeguards should be documented according to SA-01
storing logs in a central place is needed, logging includes defined events that affect security and availability of the cloud service. In case of unexpected events, an authorised employee is neededto allow for a timely examination of errors or security incidents in order to create suitable safeguards.
logged data must follow data-protection requirements.
## RB-11 Logging and Monitoring - meta data 
### Requirement
Policies with technical/organisational safeguards for secure handling of meta data (user data) should be documented according to SA-01.
Meta data should be collected only for accounting and billing purposes, elminating errors, and processing security incidents. 
Meta data can NOT be used for commercial purposes.
Meta data can include IP addresses, login/logout times, GPS position.
## RB-12 Logging and monitoring - critical assets
### Requirement
Cloud provider maintains list of assets that are critical to L&M, critical assets must maintain max availability.
## RB-13 Logging and monitoring - storage of the logs
### Requirement
Generated logs must be stored on secure central logging servers, logs must be deleted as soon as they fulfil their purpose.
### Additional Requirements (Conf.)
Cloud customer can request customer-specific logging and makes it available to customer, logged data and user data should be seperated ideally.
## RB-14 Logging and monitoring - Accountability
### Requirement
Generated logs allow clear identification of user access to support analyses in case of security incident.
logs should contain: USER ID , DATE AND TIME, SOURCE & TARGET, ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT, INFO ABOUT SUCCESS/FAILURE OF ACCESS
### Additional Requirements (Conf.)
Cloud customer can request to be shown the logs affecting them.
## RB-15 Logging and monitoring - Configuring
### Requirement
Access and management of L&M functionalities is limited to selected and authorised employees of cloud provider, changes to L&M are checked by authorised employees and approved beforehand.
## Additional Req.
Access and management of L&M functionalities require MFA.
## RB-16 Logging and Montiroing - Availability of Monitoring Software
### Requirement
Availability of logging/monitoring software should be monitored independently, in case it fails, responsible employees must be informed immediately.
## Additional Req. (Conf. Avail.)
L&M software should be designed redundantly to monitor sec. and avail. of customer systems in event of failures.
## RB-17 Handling of vulnerabilities, malfunctions and errors - concept 
### Requirement 
Policies with technical/organisational safeguards should be documented according to SA-01.
Safe guard examples: regular analysis of vulnerabilities, regular follow up of safeguards.
## RB-18 Handling of vulnerabilities, malfunctions and errors - Pen tests
### Requirement
Pen tests must be performed by qualified employees or external service providers at least once a year.
Pen tests must be carried out according to documented test methods and include crtitical assets especially.
VULNERABILITIES CAN BE CLASSIFIED ACCORDING TO DAMAGE POTENTIAL and period of time for response. 
BSI's Ein Praxis-Leitfaden für IS-Penetrationstests (A practical guide to IS pen tests) has examples:
- High: Immediate Response
- Medium: Short-term response
- Low: Medium-term response
- Information: Long-term response

### Addtional Requirements (Conf. Avail.)
Tests must be carried out every 6 months, they must be performed by an external independent auditors. Internal personnel for pen tests may support external service providers.
## RB-19 Handling of vulnerabilities, malfunctions and errors - integration with change and incident management
### Requirement
Policies with technical/organisation safeguards for handling citical vulenrabilities should be documented according to SA-01.
## RB-20 Handling of vulnerabilities, malfunctions and errors - involvement of the cloud customers
### Requirement
Cloud customer should be informed by cloud provider of the status of the incidents affecting them regularly. as soon as the incident is resolved, cloud customer should be informed of the safeguards taken.
## RB-21 Handling of vulnerabilities, malfunctions and errors - check of open vulenrabilities
### Requirement
IT systems should be checked automatically for known vulnerabilities at least once a month, any strange behaviours must be resolved and documented according to SA-03.
### Additional Req. (Conf.)
customer can request info about open vulnerabilities, vulnerability must be resolved immediately.
## RB-22 Handling of vulnerabilities, malfunctions and errors - System Hardening
### Requirements
System components hardening methods should be implemented and documented.
### Additional Requirements (Conf.) 
Customer can request info about standards used and safeguards taken to harden system components
## RB-23 Segregation of stored and processed data of the cloud customers in jointly used resources
### Requirements
Data is seperated securely and strictrly on resources that are jointly shared according to a documented concept to guarantee conf. and integrity
This can be achieved by the use of firewalls, VLANs, ACLs.
Segregation of data is the subject of control KOS-05
### Additonal Requirements (Conf.)
Resources in storage should be segmented by secure oning (LUN Binding and LUN Masking)
