
The given information system should be analysed in a way that allows the implementation of ISKE without causing unnecessary obstacles for the implementer.

Several options include:

- level of detail should be in parallel with ISKE implementation.
- level of detail should allow IT management.

Information system components that are under the control of the company and outsourced services must be distinguished.


# 2.1.1 Inventory of information system
Once a year at least. there should be a check for the conformity of information systems.

# 2.1.2 Specification and categorisation of information assets

Each component should be detailed in a way that allows implementation of ISKE and auditing based on it.

## example for detailing information:

- Unique name (full name or ID number of device).
- Type (is it a db , workstation, webserver ??)
- Platform used (Hardware and OS)
- Work method (integral to info system, supporting, or autonomous?)
- Application/DB used
- Location (building/room number/data center)
- Adminsitrator responsible and users (unit/title/role, etc)
- Status (being used, in testing, prototype, planned)
- Communication interfaces (Internet, WLAN adapter, VPN)
Type of network connection and network address

There is no right way, Section 2.4 helps more with knowing how to filter/analyse.

# 2.1.3 Grouping of Information Assets

similar information assets should be grouped as it simplifies ISKE management and the process of implementing security measures.

What should be considered for what to group by:

- Information Assets are of same type.
- Information assets have been configured and are configured the same way
- Information assets have the same network.
- Information assets have the same administrative/infrastructure-related requirements.
- Information assets have the same security requirements.

An example is the workstations of the information systems, usually they're configured the same way, so they should be grouped.
