The owner of data must assign required security level of data. not infosec specialist, infosec specialist may act as an advisor.

security class must be confirmed by the management of the agency after the security classes and subclasses have been assigned by the data owner.

## Availability

## Security Classes

### K0

less than 90%/year and maximum interruption duration is more than 24 hours.

### K1

more than or equal to 90% and less than 99% per year and maximum interruption duration is up to 24 hour and more than 4 hours.

### K2

More than or equal to 99% and less than 99.9% per year and maximum interuption duration is up to 4 hours and more than 1 hour.

### K3

More than or equal to 99.9% per year and maximum interuption duration is up to 1 hour.

## Integrity

### T0

Info source, detectability, amendents or termination is not important

correctness and being up to date is not necessary.

### T1

Info source, detectability, amendents or termination must be detectable

Correctness and being up to date is done on a special case according to need (so not that necessary)

### T2

Info source, detectability, amendents or termination must be detectable

periodic check of correctness and being up to date is required.

### T3

Info source, detectability, amendents or termination must have evidential value (guessing this means have proper logs tht prove the mentioned actions)

Real time control of correctness, integrity, and being up to date.

## Confidentiality

### S0
public info, access is not limited , basically everything is out.

### S1

Info intended internally.
Access to info must be granted if the person requesting has legitimate interest;

### S2

Classified info;
info can only be used by certain user groups; access to the info must be granted if the person has legitimate interest.

### S3

Highlly classified info;
info can be used only by certain users (not groups). access to the info must be granted if the person has legitimate interest.


## Data Security Class

Basically i's the combination of the 3 security subclasses. There are 64 different security classes (4 x 4 x 4)

An example of a data security: K2T3S2; This highlights what's the level of Avail. Integ. Avail. we are required to implement according to ISKE.

## Things to consider before assigning security subclasses

Taking into cnsideration the requirements that come from legal acts and agreements.

Some subclasses logically don't make sense such as assigning K0 to an information system that naturally needs to maintain a higher level of availability.
GDPR also poses some of these subclasses not to be possible if the information system deals with the EU.

Another point is also taking into consideration the target audience, for example. a company that offers a service to its customers needs to maintain a cetain (K) level according to the hours it needs to serve customers conveniently.

### Assesing importance of consequences
Security incidents are basically incidents that do not conform to the 3 security subclasses (Conf. Integ. Avail.)

#### R0

security incidents do not result in considerable damages 

#### R1

Insignificant damages occur;
A security incident can cause significant obstacles to the performance of the information system or significant financial losses.

#### R2

Significant damages occur;
A security incident can cause significant obstacles to the performance of the information system, danger to human health, danger to the environment, or significant financial losses.

#### R3

Highly significant damages occur;
AA security incident can cause total shutdown to the performance of the information system, danger to human health, danger to the environment, or highly significant financial losses.
